This lecture is about reading XML.
So if you don't know about XML, it's
Extensible Markup Language, is what it
stands for.
So it's frequently used to score
structured data.
It's particularly widely used in internet
applications.
So you'll see it a lot when you're doing
things like web scraping or trying to get
data from
an internet API or trying to download data
from say,
open data of websites, say like an open
government website.
So, extracting HTML, XML is actually the
basis
for most of the web-scraping that you'll
see.
There are two components to an XML file.
There's the markup.
That's the labels that give the text
structure.
So you can imagine if you just started
typing, you
would end up with sort of an unstructured
text file.
The markup is the way that you add labels
so that the file ends being structured.
And then the content is the actual text
that you type in,
in between sort of the labels that give
the structure to the text.
So to be a little bit more concrete, we'll
talk about tags, elements and attributes.
So tags correspond to the labels, that
there are labels that are going to
be applying to particular parts of the
text so that it will be structured.
So, there are start tags.
And so, start tags look like this.
So, they start with an open caret on one
side and then they
have a, a phrase and then a closed caret
on the other side.
So, you'll have that at the beginning of a
certain part of the text.
So, that will start them, that text as a,
a labelled section called section.
And then it ends with an end tag which
looks like this.
It has the same phrase as before, but it
starts with a forward slash inside of the
two carets.
And so the empty tags are tags that
correspond to lines where you don't
necessarily need
both an open and then a close tag to
deliminate a certain part of a text.
You might just want to denote one specific
line, say, as a line break.
And so what you do is, you have the same
sort of structure.
Only you have the forward slash just over
here at the right end.
So elements are specific examples of tags.
So, for example, one element of the XML
markup could be, the tag greeting, with
the end
tag greeting over here on the right hand
side
and in between it the content, the hello
world.
So, attributes are components of the
label.
So, you can actually add to the tags
components.
And so, for example, you might have an
image tag.
So, what you might want to have
corresponding to
that image is an attribute that's the
source.
That's where the image is actually coming
from.
And then an alternate phrase for that tag,
and that could be instructor, for example.
So another example here is suppose you
have a tag that's
a step tag, and you might have multiple
steps, so tag
number step number one might be tagged
with number equal 1
and then two and then this is number three
step three.
And then it needs to end with an end tag
just like it did before.
If you want to know a lot more about XML
and
it's probably Probably a good idea before
doing a whole bunch
more with this lecture, if you could go
and see, the
Wikepedia entry on XML, which is actually
quite comprehensive and nice.
So this is an example XML file.
It's a little bit hard to see, but you can
see it okay if
you go actually to the web link here at
the bottom of the page.
And so the idea here is you have a text
file,
and that text file has lots of tags and
content in it.
So for example here you have a tag that
says food and then
here is a close tag for that tag that says
food down here.
So you can see they're indented at the
same level within this file.
And then for this particular food element
you actually have a name, so there's
the open tag for name and there's the
close tag for name, and this particular.
Element is named sort of Belgian Waffle,
delicious.
And then there's other tags that
correspond
to other components of this particular
food element.
And then you go down and there's another
food elements with another names and so
forth.
So that's what an xml file look at.
It looks like and I encourage you to go
look the
the bigger version of that when you go to
that web link.
So you can read the file into R, you can
do this
with the XML package so we're loading the
XML package all caps XML.
And then you give it the url.
So in this case, we're going to give it
the url from
the previous XML file we were looking at
on that previous screen.
And then we can use the function XML three
parts to parse out that XML file.
So what this does is.
It loads the document into a memory, into
a R memory in a way
that you can then parse it and get access
to different parts of it.
So, within R, it's still a structured
object, so we have to
be able to use different functions to
access different parts of that object.
So, the first thing that we want to look
at is the root node.
So, the root node you can get with XML
root.
And so what that is, is it's sort of the
wrapper,
you can think of it as the wrapper for the
entire document.
And so if you execute this xml root
command, you'll
have access to that particular element to
that xml file.
And then if you want to get the name out,
you can actually use the xmlname
applied to that node to get the name out,
in this case, it's the breakfast menu.
You can also look at the names of the root
node.
And so, when you do names of the root node
what it's actually
telling you is what all the nested
elements within that root node are.
So, the root node wraps the whole document
and the whole document is a breakfast
menu.
And then there are five different
breakfast items on this
menu, and each one is wrapped within a
food element.
So, you get five food elements, if you
look at names of the root node.
So,
the next thing that you could use is
actually directly access parts of the XML
document.
And you can do it in a little bit in the
same that way you access a list in R.
And so, for example, if you want to look
at.
You, you have this root node element that
we've extracted.
And we can look at the first component of
that or the
first element of that and we do it by
using double brackets here.
That's how you access the first element,
say in a list.
And so, what you get out, actually, is the
first food element, like this.
So it contains the food tags, and it also
contains all the information about the
first food element.
Then, if you want to keep drilling down
into smaller and smaller parts of
the XML document, you can do sub-setting,
just like you do with lists.
So first, this exit rootNode and the first
bracket one, will again give you this.
Element here with the entire food
component and then if you
want to take the first element of that,
you'll just repeat the
process again and then you'll be looking
at just the name
the belgian waffles because that's the
first subcomponent of the first
subcomponent.
You can actually programmatically extract
different parts of the file.
So you can do that with the XML Xsupply
command,
and so what you do is you pass that a
parsed XML object and then you tell it
what function
you like to apply; so in this case XML
value.
So what that's going to do is, it's
going to
loop through all of the elements of the
root node and get the XML value And
by default this is going to do this
recursively.
So, if you apply it in this way,
since rootNode contains the entire
document, it's going to
go through and get every single value of
every sing tagged element in the entire
document.
And so you just get a bunch of text all
strung together that's all the text that
was in that document.
You might be a little bit more specific
and get a specific component of the
document.
And you can do that using the XPath
language, so this a whole other language
that you have to learn in addition to XML
to be able to access the data.
But if you learn just a few of the
components then you'll be a long way along
the way.
I'm going to talk a little bit about this,
but
there's actually really nice set of
lecture notes that are
available here that go into this in a
little
bit more depth, if you find yourself a
little bit.
Lost after this lecture.
So the first thing that you're going to be
looking at is the top
level node of each element, and that you
get with a forward slash node.
The node at any level is double slash
node.
And then you can actually extract specific
nodes with specific attributes.
And we'll talk about how to do that in the
next couple of slides.
[SOUND] So the first thing that you're
going to want to be able to do is
get the items on the menu and their prices
and so the way that
we're going to do that is we're again
going to use this xpathSApply but now
we're
going to be a little bit more targeted
about which data we're going to be
extracting.
So we're giving you, again, [INAUDIBLE]
the rootNode.
That's the entire document, and so then
what we're going to be doing
is we're going to be using This xpack
element here is //name.
And so, what that's going to do is it's
going to go through and get all of the
nodes
that correspond to an element with title
name and
then it's going to get the xmlvalue of
those nodes.
So, what it's going to do is it's going to
take
out basically all of the elements of that
XML file that
are tagged with name and so you can see,
you end
up with the names of all of the items on
the menu.
You can also do the same thing.
You send the exact same rootNode to
xpathSApply, only now you
can say I actually just want the nodes
that correspond to price.
And again I want their xmlValue.
And so it will plot out the xmel values
which the prices of the values and now
we extract from that xmel file the names
of the menu items as well as their prices.
To give you an example of, it's a
little more complicated I am actually
going to use
a website of the Baltimore Ravens which is
an
American football team that is based here
on Baltimore.
So, this the homepage of that team on
ESPN.
Which is a sports channel in the U.S. and
so
what we're going to do is actually look at
the source code.
So, if you right click on the page and say
view
source what you'll see is a source
document that looks like this.
It's actually quite complicated.
That's the source code that actually
demonstrates, that's process to show you
the
website that you actually see when you go
navigate your browser to that website.
So we're going to actually drill into this
website
source code and see if we can extract some
information.
So again I'm going to pass the file URL.
This is the URL of that website, if you go
back to the previous page.
So now, since I'm parsing an HTML file,
instead of an XML
file, I'm going to use HTML tree parse
instead of XML tree parse.
Um,the difference is our, it's different
enough you want to
use HTML tree parse when you're parsing an
HTML file.
And then I'm going to pass the command use
internal equals true, so
that I can get all the different nodes
inside of that, that file.
So now what I'm going to do is, I'm again
going
to use the xpathSApply to programatically
extract some components of this document.
So I'm going to start with the whole
document again.
And now what I'm going to try to do is,
I'm going to
again extract the XML value to the value
inside of certain elements.
But I want to find very specific kinds of
elements.
So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to look for elements.
That are list items li, and that have a
particular class.
So they have class equal to score.
And so, what this is going to do is it's
going to go through the entire document,
and any time it
sees a tag that is a, a list item,
it's going to check and see if it's class
is score.
And if it's class is score it'll return
the XML value.
So it turns out if you go back to this
website and you look very very
carefully, That you can see for example
there are these list items and
the class in this class is equal to the
team name and so the
next element that I'm going to be
extracting
on this page is actually the team name.
So it's the same thing.
I look for a list item with class equal
to team name and it will extract those
team names.
So the way this works is you go to the
website and
you find the tag and any attributes that
you want to extract,
and then you need to write them into this
xpath language to
extract only the data for those specific
elements with xpath, as applied.
So, if I do this, I end up with the scores
for each of the games and the teams.
So, I've scraped from that website
information directly using
This is a very brief introduction to XML.
The xml packaging r and xml in general.
If you go and check out the xml tutorials
for the
xml package there's a short one that's
really good and a long
one that's extremely extensive and should
only be read after reading the
short one so you get an idea of what is
going on.
And then there's really outstanding guide
to the XML
package that's linked to here as well that
will
give you a lot of information about how
you
can use XML to programatically extract
information from websites.